hw0/hw0_report.md, before:

# HW0 - Getting Started with Assignment reports and Linux command-line utilities
### Courtney Maynard
### DATA 440, Fall 2024
### September 10th, 2024

# Q3

*Upload an image to your GitHub repo and include it in place of the "Growth of the Early Web" image. Make sure to change the description of the image in the report, too.*

## Answer

The image below shows me doing one of my favorite activities - hiking - in Acadia National Park.

![\label{fig:courtney-hiking}](IMG_2057.png = 200x200)

## Discussion
In order to arrive at the image above, I downloaded an image from my phone to computer and uploaded it into the correct hw0 directory. Following the example template, I chose an applicable name for the image and pasted the local path to the image. After committing the changes, I realized that the image was too big so I used an online page called Github Gist for an example of how to resize the image.

# Q4
*Replace the code in the fenced code block with any other block of code. You can use some Python code, or you can insert code from a different language -- just change the language indicated so that syntax highlighting still works properly.*

## Answer

This code is tokenizing song lyrics, line by line, and is part of the preliminary testing of different tokenization methodologies for my honors thesis. 

```
# must split lyrics into lines, in order to retain the line-level information.
def lyrics_into_lines(lyrics):
    return lyrics.split('\n')

df_balanced['Lyrics_Lines'] = df_balanced['Lyrics'].apply(lyrics_into_lines)

# tokenize each line individually in order to respect the structure of the song.

def tokenize_line(line):
    line = re.sub(r'[^a-zA-Z0-9\s]', '', line.lower())
    tokens = word_tokenize(line)
    return tokens

def tokenize_lyrics(lines):
    return [tokenize_line(line) for line in lines]

df_balanced['Tokenized_Lyrics'] = df_balanced['Lyrics_Lines'].apply(tokenize_lyrics)
```

## Discussion
I arrived at the code block above by following the template for including python code in a markdown file. An implication of this exercise is knowing how to format python code so that it is readable and clear that it is code and not just text. 

# Q5 
*Edit the first table so that it matches the first 4 weeks of our class schedule, as given in our syllabus*

## Answer

The table shows the first four weeks of the Data 440 Web Science class schedule.

|Week|Lecture Dates|Topic|Homework (Data assigned -- Due Date)
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
|01|Aug 29 & Sep 3|[Introduction to Web Science and Web Architecture](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1sSNcXMBUJWb-rVbTEvKqFAC2SvJugI8m/)| [HW0](https://github.com/anwala/teaching-web-science/tree/main/fall-2024/homework/hw0) - Getting Started, Aug 29 -- Sep 10|
|02|Sep 5 & 10|[Introduction to Python]((https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_TcgFerDRT0dZVX98-jMIJBMmV4_IAQg/)|[Python Google Colab notebook](https://github.com/anwala/teaching-web-science/blob/main/fall-2022/week-2/data_440_03_f22_mod_02_python.ipynb)<br/>[Python lab exercises](https://github.com/anwala/teaching-web-science/blob/main/fall-2022/week-2/data_440_03_f22_mod_02_lab.ipynb)<br/>[HW1](https://github.com/anwala/teaching-web-science/tree/main/fall-2024/homework/hw1) - Web Sci. Intro, Sep 10 -- 24|
|03|Sep 12 & 17|[Introduction to Info Vis with R, Python](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1pSywHD9i3aVNsWNxtcUfT1E2tP4mgcQv/)<br/>[Web Scraping](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vtT9dleNJlUbc3ny14gotGX1Md1dEWhVHYWTz0MMdRk/edit?usp=sharing)|[InfoVis in R Colab Notebook](https://github.com/anwala/teaching-web-science/blob/main/fall-2022/week-3/data_440_03_f22_mod_03_info_vis_r.ipynb)<br/>[InfoVis in Python Colab Notebook](https://github.com/anwala/teaching-web-science/blob/main/fall-2022/week-3/data_440_03_f22_mod_03_info_vis_python.ipynb)<br/>[Web Scraping (IMDB) Python Colab notebook](https://github.com/anwala/teaching-web-science/blob/main/fall-2023/week-3/data_440_02_f23_mod_03_web_scraping_imdb.ipynb)<br/>[Web Scraping (Twitter) Python scripts](https://github.com/anwala/teaching-web-science/blob/main/fall-2023/week-3/twitter-scraper/)|
|04|Sep 19 & 24|[Measuring the Web](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1R7CKhxlAv_nQtt_xb1HQotqgSxcVDz58/)| |

## Discussion

I used the syllabus markdown file as a reference for creating this table. Looking at the raw code for the file allowed me to see how to code line breaks to put the homework topics in the correct stacked order. Additionally, I was able to reference how to include links to other files or markdown pages to create the links in this table as well. I included all global links instead of local links, as I didn't create copies in my folder of the homework assignments.

# References

* Github Gist - Image Resize in Github Flavored Markdown, <https://gist.github.com/uupaa/f77d2bcf4dc7a294d109>
* Insert Reference 2, <https://www.example.com/reallyreallyreally-extra-long-URI/>

Commit message:

fix image and broken link in table

hw0/hw0_report.md, after:

# HW0 - Getting Started with Assignment reports and Linux command-line utilities
### Courtney Maynard
### DATA 440, Fall 2024
### September 10th, 2024

# Q3

*Upload an image to your GitHub repo and include it in place of the "Growth of the Early Web" image. Make sure to change the description of the image in the report, too.*

## Answer

The image below shows me doing one of my favorite activities - hiking - in Acadia National Park.

<img src="IMG_2057.png" width="200" height="200">

## Discussion
In order to arrive at the image above, I downloaded an image from my phone to computer and uploaded it into the correct hw0 directory. Following the example template, I chose an applicable name for the image and pasted the local path to the image. After committing the changes, I realized that the image was too big so I used an online page called Github Gist for an example of how to resize the image. This required me to change the code for uploading an image to use typical HTML syntax of img src="link to image". 

# Q4
*Replace the code in the fenced code block with any other block of code. You can use some Python code, or you can insert code from a different language -- just change the language indicated so that syntax highlighting still works properly.*

## Answer

This code is tokenizing song lyrics, line by line, and is part of the preliminary testing of different tokenization methodologies for my honors thesis. 

```
# must split lyrics into lines, in order to retain the line-level information.
def lyrics_into_lines(lyrics):
    return lyrics.split('\n')

df_balanced['Lyrics_Lines'] = df_balanced['Lyrics'].apply(lyrics_into_lines)

# tokenize each line individually in order to respect the structure of the song.

def tokenize_line(line):
    line = re.sub(r'[^a-zA-Z0-9\s]', '', line.lower())
    tokens = word_tokenize(line)
    return tokens

def tokenize_lyrics(lines):
    return [tokenize_line(line) for line in lines]

df_balanced['Tokenized_Lyrics'] = df_balanced['Lyrics_Lines'].apply(tokenize_lyrics)
```

## Discussion
I arrived at the code block above by following the template for including python code in a markdown file. An implication of this exercise is knowing how to format python code so that it is readable and clear that it is code and not just text. 

# Q5 
*Edit the first table so that it matches the first 4 weeks of our class schedule, as given in our syllabus*

## Answer

The table shows the first four weeks of the Data 440 Web Science class schedule.

|Week|Lecture Dates|Topic|Homework (Data assigned -- Due Date)
|:---|:---|:---|:---|
|01|Aug 29 & Sep 3|[Introduction to Web Science and Web Architecture](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1sSNcXMBUJWb-rVbTEvKqFAC2SvJugI8m/)| [HW0](https://github.com/anwala/teaching-web-science/tree/main/fall-2024/homework/hw0) - Getting Started, Aug 29 -- Sep 10|
|02|Sep 5 & 10|[Introduction to Python](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_TcgFerDRT0dZVX98-jMIJBMmV4_IAQg/)|[Python Google Colab notebook](https://github.com/anwala/teaching-web-science/blob/main/fall-2022/week-2/data_440_03_f22_mod_02_python.ipynb)<br/>[Python lab exercises](https://github.com/anwala/teaching-web-science/blob/main/fall-2022/week-2/data_440_03_f22_mod_02_lab.ipynb)<br/>[HW1](https://github.com/anwala/teaching-web-science/tree/main/fall-2024/homework/hw1) - Web Sci. Intro, Sep 10 -- 24|
|03|Sep 12 & 17|[Introduction to Info Vis with R, Python](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1pSywHD9i3aVNsWNxtcUfT1E2tP4mgcQv/)<br/>[Web Scraping](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vtT9dleNJlUbc3ny14gotGX1Md1dEWhVHYWTz0MMdRk/edit?usp=sharing)|[InfoVis in R Colab Notebook](https://github.com/anwala/teaching-web-science/blob/main/fall-2022/week-3/data_440_03_f22_mod_03_info_vis_r.ipynb)<br/>[InfoVis in Python Colab Notebook](https://github.com/anwala/teaching-web-science/blob/main/fall-2022/week-3/data_440_03_f22_mod_03_info_vis_python.ipynb)<br/>[Web Scraping (IMDB) Python Colab notebook](https://github.com/anwala/teaching-web-science/blob/main/fall-2023/week-3/data_440_02_f23_mod_03_web_scraping_imdb.ipynb)<br/>[Web Scraping (Twitter) Python scripts](https://github.com/anwala/teaching-web-science/blob/main/fall-2023/week-3/twitter-scraper/)|
|04|Sep 19 & 24|[Measuring the Web](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1R7CKhxlAv_nQtt_xb1HQotqgSxcVDz58/)| |

## Discussion

I used the syllabus markdown file as a reference for creating this table. Looking at the raw code for the file allowed me to see how to code line breaks to put the homework topics in the correct stacked order. Additionally, I was able to reference how to include links to other files or markdown pages to create the links in this table as well. I included all global links instead of local links, as I didn't create copies in my folder of the homework assignments.

# References

* Github Gist - Markdown - Resize pictures in GitHub, including in comments comment, <https://gist.github.com/MichaelPolla/a65ac84286ab523603e64549f9850223>
* Insert Reference 2, <https://www.example.com/reallyreallyreally-extra-long-URI/>
